2017-09-22-Adventures Is AWS.md

---
layout: default
title: "AWS"
date: 2017-09-22
---

# Adventures in AWS

I am considering taking some AWS certification. This is documenting that journey.

# A Cloud Guru

## AWS Tech Essentials

### Introduction ###

90% of the market.
AWS certificates are the most popular.
Number of certs makes you a partner.

Associate Exams.
3 Entry Level
2 Professional Tier
3 Speciality

Developer Associate is the easiset. 

### AWS - The History So Far ###

AWS - no cost for startups to build infratstructure.
Originally called SQS - 2004.
2013 - Certification was launched.

* 2016 re:Invent talk on YouTube.*

* Should subscribe to A Cloud Guru on youTube *
* Jeff Barrs Blogg *

###  10,000 Foot Overview Foot 1 ###

What do you need for the * Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam *.

Messaging
Desktop and App Streaming
Security and Identity
Management Tools
Storage
Databases
Networking and Content Delivery
Compute
AWS Global Infrastructure

A Region has Availability Zones. 
Region is a geographical area.
2 or more Availability Zones (Data Centres) in each region.
Edge Locations are CDN delivery End Points for CloudFront. - for caching large media files.
Lots more Edge locations that Regions - over 66
Some regions may not have certain sevices.

* VPC  Important *
Virtual Private Cloud - Virtual Data Centres in each Regions.
How to build from memory.

* Route 53 - 53 is the DNS Port*
DNS Servers - resolve URL to an IP address.

* Cloud Front *
Caching videos etc, storage.

* Direct Connect *
For connecting office to data centres over a dedicated line.

* EC2 - Elastic Compute Cloud *
Just VMs in a cloud

* EC2 Container Services  *
Supports Docker containers.
Not in the exam.

* Elastic Beanstalk *
If you dont know AWS you can just use EB and it will do the provisioning.
Quite a lot in the developer exam.

* Lambda *
Serverless 
Upload code and it will respond to events.
eg speaking to Alexa is speaking to Lambda
Not yet in the exam but certain to change.

* Lightsail *
Out of the box cloud - Wordpress.
No need for AWS skills.







* Identity Access
















